I'm gonna talk a little bit
more about populations and
the forms in which they can come because
populations can come in a variety of
different forms that you
may not necessarily expect.
Two common ones that I wanna talk about
are for data that vary over time or
data that vary over space.
For example, suppose you
are looking at time series data.
You might be looking at the closing
value of Apple stock every day for year.
You've got this data set, it's daily data
for a year of Apple's closing price.
Suppose you wanna make
an inference from this data set,
what is the population there now that
you're trying to make an inference too?
There's a couple of different
candidates that you can think about.
The first is, this data came from
a single year's worth of data.
Apple's been around for many years.
You might think that this data
set represents a sample from
all the future or past years, for
example, of data that might exist.
This data's a random sample from all the
different years that you might look at.
Another possibility is that,
of course, Apple is on a stock market,
and there's other stocks that
trade on a stock market.
You might think of Apple
as being a random draw
from those other stocks
in the stock market.
For example, if you're trying to
approximate an index of stocks,
Apple would be a random
element of that index,
you might sample different
stocks to approximate the index.
The other kind of phenomenon that often,
where the population
can be difficult to define, is when
you're looking at natural phenomenons.
For things like earthquakes ,hurricanes,
or wildfires, things that occur in space,
you often collect data on that and
analyze it using models or whatnot.
But then if you want to make an inference,
you have to think a little bit carefully
about what exactly are you inferring,
or making an inference about?
Often with natural processes, it's useful
to think of an unobserved stochastic
process that lies in the background and
drops these events on the ground.
If you imagine there's a stochastic
process of earthquakes that randomly
drops earthquakes into our world,
or wildfires, or hurricanes,
whatever it may be, when you fit a model
and you make an inference from that model,
what you're inferring are properties
of this unobserved stochastic process.
The last thing that I'll
talk about when it comes to
inference is actually not
about inference at all,
it's actually a special case of
using the data as a population.
The underlying question here really
that you want to ask yourself
is do you actually need to
make an inference at all?
Sometimes you can think of
the data set as a population.
There may be cases where you actually
have all the data you ever wanna see and
then you actually don't care about
things that are outside the data set,
which is really, fundamentally,
what inference is about is that you're
talking about things outside the data set.
If the data are the population,
one of the features of your analysis
is that it will have no uncertainty
because there's no sampling process
that generates the uncertainty.
You won't have to worry about confidence
intervals or standard errors or
P values because you'll have all the
certainty in the world that you'll need,
assuming that you don't have any
problems with that data set.
There are many cases where, for example,
if you have data collecting on your
organization that you won't have to worry
about things that are outside the data set
because you may not be worried about
things that are outside your organization.
Try to always think
carefully about whether or
not you actually have to make an inference
because, in many cases, you may not.
Then you're analysis will
be greatly simplified
because you won't have to worry about
making statements about things that you
don't actually observe because
you actually observe everything.
Just to summarize, inference is
the process of making statements from data
about things that you can't observe.
There are many different kind of
populations that you can think about or
construct when you're
making inference from data.
Then there's the special case of
using the data as a population,
in which case you're not making
any inferences at all but
you actually have all
the information you need.
It's useful to figure out what situation
you're in and for any given question, and
to always define
the population coherently, so
that you know what you're
making inferences about.